% final.tex
% Final Report for NM5660 Independent Study Module
% Author: Yih-Lun Huang
% Revisions: 16 April 2010

\documentclass[a4paper,titlepage]{article}

\usepackage{verbatim}
\usepackage{natbib}
\usepackage{url}
\usepackage{tikz}

\hyphenation{trans-pa-ren-cy}


\begin{document}


\title{Toward Investigation of Patterns of User Experience}

\author{Yih-Lun Huang\\
HY090191Y\\
\texttt{ylhuang@nus.edu.sg}}

\maketitle


\begin{abstract}
Traditionally, studies in user experience focus primarily on designers
and end-users. However in small and medium sized enterprises, software
developers tend to take on a number of roles, including designers,
user experience engineers, analysts, and marketing staffs. In this
article, we argue that in order to effectively improve the user
experience of the end-users, a more pragmatic measure---patterns of
user experience---is more suitable for aiding the software
developers. We also proposed studies on gathering patterns of user
experience through an intuitive scribbling system for children in the
end of the article.
\end{abstract}


\tableofcontents
\newpage


\section{Introduction}
\label{sec:introduction}
The notion of user experience has been wildly adopted in the field of
human-computer interaction. However, as many existing literature has
already pointed out \citep{ux:hassenzahl, ux:law}, a common agreement
on the exact definition of user experience is still in debate, and so
far is not fully understood by researchers, consultants, managers in
the industry, and practitioners in the field.

They do agree that the traditional usability framework, which focus
primarily on work-related and performance-based use, is limited and
used alone can no longer inform design and evaluate the ever more
complex settings of modern computation. This was especially true when
ubiquitous computing was introduced, where the interfaces between
users and computers are no longer single, static, and restricted to
the traditional window, icon, menu, and pointing device. Instead,
multiple interfaces are spread throughout the environment and are
updated dynamically depending on the context \citep{windows:bolter}.

But besides the above agreement that the traditional usability
framework is not enough, people from different backgrounds and
interests, with varying focuses and concerns, have formulated their
own definitions and statements on user experience. Some tackle this
from the emotional and affective aspects of human-computer
interaction, such as stressing the importance of emotions as
consequences of product use \citep{emotions:desmet}. Some deal with
the nature of experience or the experiential aspect,
e.g.\ \citet{experience:forlizzi}. And yet others address the human
needs beyond the ``functional'' \citep{emotional:norman}, such as
surprise or intimacy. \citep{alternatives:gaver}.

Though very exciting to witness and take part in this particular time
frame, where opportunities are still around to make significant
contributions to the human knowledge, it is actually quite troublesome
for practitioners in the field of human-computer interaction. And in
the case of this article, we specifically focus our attention on
software developers.

Software developers are the focus group for this article. More often
than not, researchers in the user experience field concentrate their
attentions primarily on two set of people: designers and
end-users. But the fact is that, software developers in small and
medium sized enterprises, which have a dominating percentage for most
economies\footnote{\url{http://epp.eurostat.ec.europa.eu/portal/page/portal/european_business/special_topics/small_medium_sized_enterprises_SMEs}},
usually take on a number of roles, such as being designers, user
experience engineers, analysts, and marketing staffs. Hence in order
to effectively improve the user experience of human-computer
interaction, we believe that a more practical measure adapted toward
software developers are required.

In this article, we argue that patterns of user experience---a
collection of the best practices within the user experience design
domain, transcribed in languages similar to software patterns---is a
good tool for helping the software developers on improving the user
experience for end-users.

In the following sections, we first go through the related works of
our study (section \ref{sec:related}). Afterward, we cover the
backgrounds on usability, transparency, user experience, and patterns
(section \ref{sec:backgrounds}). Next, we discuss about patterns of
user experience (section \ref{sec:pux}). At the end, we propose
studies on collecting patterns of user experience through an intuitive
scribbling system for children (section \ref{sec:studies}). And finally,
the conclusion and future works (section \ref{sec:conclusion}).


\section{Related Works}
\label{sec:related}
\citet{language:alexander} and its companion book
\citet{timeless:alexander} established the concept of patterns. The
publications featured a very complete set of patterns on improving the
quality of life for people who are living inside physical buildings or
in city. Although the patterns target the architecture and urban
planning, they can also apply to many disciplines, including software
development.

Patterns are no strangers to software developers. The publication of
\textit{Design Patterns} \citep{patterns:gamma} dramatically changed
the practice of software development. Since then, many authors have
written books on software patterns covering various aspects of
software engineering, This includes: programming paradigms,
programming languages, software development methodologies,
etc. However, these patterns are designed to help the software
developers, instead of helping the actual users who is using the
software.

There are quite a few existing publications on the patterns of user
experience. \citet{participatory:dearden} examined the patterns for
enabling users to participate in the product design.
\citet{speech:zajicek} suggested patterns of good speech interface
design for older adults. \citet{unix:raymond} provided patterns to
improve the user experience of command-line interface.
\citet{patterns:tidwell} described patterns for graphical user
interfaces. We would also like to contribute more patterns to the
community through our planned studies.

There are also other attempt on narrowing the gap between software
developers and human-computer interaction. In \citet{agile:memmel},
the authors proposed a cross-discipline user interface design
lifecycle that integrates software engineering and human-computer
interaction under the umbrella of agile software development. However,
their work is focused on adapting the formal methods of human-computer
interaction, while we are adapting patterns of user experience, into
the more light-weighted engineering lifecycle of the recent agile
movement.


\section{Backgrounds}
\label{sec:backgrounds}
Before we discuss the patterns of user experience, we would like to
break them down and clarify the backgrounds and view points the
perspective we are interested in.

\subsection{Technology-oriented Development}
When junior software developers are given the task of designing a new
product or system, most of the time, they tend to squeeze as many
features as possible into whatever they are suppose to design. The
interfaces between the user and the design are scattered all
over. This can often be observed in corporates where a junior software
developer is assigned to develop an internal tool to facilitate an
existing working process. Though the design is practical, it is not
very useful and the usage is limited to only a small selected group of
users.

The above phenomenons were also observed in the early days of user
interface designs. Many new technologies---such as window, icon, menu,
and pointing device---had grasped the attentions of the software
developers. They were very eager to try out these new technologies and
often falsely believed that the implementation of these new
technologies were the goal of successful software.

This is indicated by \citet{inmates:cooper} that although software
developers work hard to make their software easy to use, their frame
of reference is themselves and as a result they make it easy for other
software developers, instead of typical end-users. He explains that
since having too much influence over the design of the human interface
and the lack of skills in this area, software developers do a poor job
of it.

\subsection{Usability}
This situation will last until the software developers are introduced
to the concept of usability. Since the 1980s, this concept was
introduced by the published studies and analysis papers from a
dedicated group of mostly psychologists and human factors researchers
\citep{human:rubinstein, friendly:simpson, human:shneiderman,
  human:brown, software:dumas}. The philosophy behind this is that
every stage of the development process---requirements, design,
implementation, verification, and maintenance---are given great
attention to the needs and limitations of the users.

In this user-oriented development, contrast to the previous
technology-oriented or feature-oriented development, software
developers work with experts from various specific fields---and most
importantly, also collaborate closely with the actual users---to bring
efficient, easy-to-learn, easy-to-memorize, and non-disruptive product
to the user. They form psychology and physiology models of the user to
anticipate their needs and limitations. And from that model, the
software developers could build products that perfectly fit the users
and not get in the way. Where the users can focus their attention on
the tasks at hand as if the user interfaces do not exist or seem
transparent \citep{computer:weiser}.

This interface transparency is an indication of good user interface
design. From their research, \citet{transparency:holtzblatt} show that
elements of an application design can disrupt users' work. They
observed that only when the users are not disrupted by the computer
system will they remain in the flow of their work and experience
transparency. It is also one of the ultimate goals for usability
studies and is considered the ideal relationship between user and tool
with the tool seeming to disappear by \citet{transparency:rutkoski}.

\subsection{User Experience}
However, the idea of striving for transparency is at the same time
being challenged by others. \citet[p.~55]{windows:bolter} talked about
the myth of transparency: {\it ``The danger of transparency is that
  the interface will mask the operation of the system exactly when the
  user needs to see and understand what the system is doing.''} One
reason for this danger comes from the fact that designers and the
users each have their own conceptual models or mental images of the
product. Ideally, these two models should be identical for the users
to understand and use the product properly. Unfortunately, this might
not always be the case. So the users often have to form their own
model exclusively from the observation of the product, whether from
the exterior guise, the feedback provided, the responses from blogger,
documentations, etc \citet{design:norman}. But if the product was
invisible or transparent to the users, how could it act as a medium to
help the users to understand itself? Transparency eliminates the
communicative aspect of the user interfaces, along with others such as
the engaging aspect.

% other direction: user experience
% difficulty of user experience
The community of human-computer interaction quickly embraced the idea
that solely pursuing for interface transparency and performance is not
enough, and a richer model is required to encapsulate the other
perspectives of the user interaction. These all fall under the
umbrella term of user experience, which may include: addressing the
human needs beyond the ``functional''; stressing affective and
emotional aspects of the interaction; and dealing with the nature of
experience \citep{ux:hassenzahl}. Many models have been proposed,
however the universal definition for user experience is still not well
understood nor fully clarified. Some definitions of user experience
are included here to illustrate its diversity:
\begin{quote}
  {\it ``All the aspects of how people use an interactive product: the
    way it feels in their hands, how well they understand how it
    works, how they feel about it while they're using it, how well it
    serves their purposes, and how well it fits into the entire
    context in which they are using it.''}

  \raggedleft \citet{experience:alben}
\end{quote}

\begin{quote}
  {\it ``All aspects of the end-user's interaction with the company,
    its services, and its product.''}

  \raggedleft \citet{experience:nielsen}
\end{quote}

\begin{quote}
  {\it ``A consequence of a user's internal state (predispositions,
    expectations, needs, motivation, mood, etc.), the characteristics
    of the designed system (e.g. complexity, purpose, usability,
    functionality, etc.) and the context (or the environment) within
    which the interaction occurs (e.g. organizational/social setting,
    meaningfulness of the activity, voluntariness of use, etc.)''}

  \raggedleft \citet{ux:hassenzahl}
\end{quote}

There are several reasons why this is so, according to \citet{ux:law}
for example:
\begin{enumerate}
  \item User experience is associated with a wide range of vague and
    dynamic concepts, including emotional, affective, experiential,
    hedonic, and aesthetic variables. Whether or not to include each
    of these variables is greatly dependent on the interests and
    background of the proposing author.
  \item The unit for measuring user experience is
    \textit{malleable}. Unlike usability where only a single aspect of
    interaction between the user and the product is assessed with well
    defined criteria, it could be extended to include multiple users,
    environment while the product is being used, and more.
\end{enumerate}

\subsection{Transparency}
Despite the limitations and dangers, transparency is still a crucial
factor within the user experience. Though many notions have surfaced
within the user experience community over the years, usability
engineering---considers transparency as one of the ultimate goals
\citep{transparency:rutkoski}---is still believed to be the more
concrete premises and disciplines below the umbrella term of user
experience \citep{future:memmel}.

Danger of transparency is about striving for too much transparency in
the design. Similarly, design with too less transparency, or too much
reflection, is equally dangerous. Users would have to pause every
single moment to ponder on the actions they have to take in order to
complete that task at hand. Hence a good design should be a balance of
the two. {\it ``Every digital artifact oscillates between being
  transparent and reflective''} \citep[p.~6]{windows:bolter}.
Balancing the transparency and reflection to the design is also one of
the primary concerns for our planned studies (section
\ref{sec:studies}.)


\subsection{Patterns}
\label{sec:patterns}
Now that a clearer understanding of usability incorporating ideas of
transparency and user experience that was introduced because of
limitations of engineering usability, we now move our attention to
patterns and clarify what we mean by patterns. We argue that patterns
is a good direction for informing user experience and in particular
patterns for software engineers.

Software developers, like engineers in the other engineering
disciplines, rely on standards---codified and enforced from good
practices---to improve the quality and lower the cost of software
development \citep{practice:ipenz}. These standards can be in the form
of examples, guidelines or even abstractified into patterns.

Patterns, as described by \citet{patterns:griffiths}, are abstractions
from the specific examples, which give patterns their generative
power. They do not supply immediate solutions to the problems,
however. Creativity is required for the software developers to
implement the patterns. Patterns are also considered more advantageous
than guidelines because they are more related to a context and are
problem centered \citep{patterns:welie}.

Software patterns are of great values to software developers. They
provided valuable engineering solutions to difficult technical
problems or elegant tricks to build user interfaces. Mastering
software patterns is so influential that it is often regarded as an
indication to distinguishing rockstar software developers from
mediocre ones \citep{rockstar:iskold}. But what are patterns?

The term ``pattern'' originated from \citet{timeless:alexander}, where
the author was looking for structures of urban planning and building
architecture that have positive influence on people by improving their
comfort and quality of life. He described:
\begin{quote}
  {\it ``Each pattern is a three-part rule, which expresses a relation
    between a certain context, a problem, and a solution.

    As an element in the world, each pattern is a relationship between
    a certain context, a certain system of forces which occurs
    repeatedly in that context, and a certain spatial configuration
    which allows these forces to resolve themselves.

    As an element of language, a pattern is an instruction, which
    shows how this spatial configuration can be used, over and over
    again, to resolve the given system of forces, wherever the context
    makes it relevant.

    The pattern is, in short, at the same time a thing, which happens
    in the world, and the rule which tells us how to create that
    thing, and when we must create it. It is both a process and a
    thing; both a description of a thing which is alive, and a
    description of the process which will generate that thing.''}

  \raggedleft \citep[p.~247]{timeless:alexander}
\end{quote}

Several years later, this idea of patterns was introduced to the
software development domain by \citet{patterns:beck} for designing
user interfaces with Smalltalk. This eventually led to one of the most
important publications in software development, \textit{Design
  Patterns: Elements of Reusable Object-Oriented Software} from
\citet{patterns:gamma}.

Though many have given their own definitions of patterns from the
software perspective, most of them still closely resemble to the
original definition from Alexander. For example:
\begin{quote}
  {\it ``A pattern is a named nugget of instructive information that
    captures the essential structure and insight of a successful
    family of proven solutions to a recurring problem that arises
    within a certain context and system of forces.''}

  \raggedleft \citet{patterns:appleton}
\end{quote}

\begin{quote}
  {\it ``Each pattern is a three-part rule, which expresses a relation
    between a certain context, a certain system of forces which occurs
    repeatedly in that context, and a certain software configuration
    which allows these forces to resolve themselves.''}

  \raggedleft \citet{timeless:gabriel}
\end{quote}

\subsection{Clarifications}
There are quite a few other standards besides patterns which can also
help software developers on improving the quality of the software. For
example as mentioned above, guidelines and examples. Others include,
but not limited to, principles, frameworks, and algorithms / data
structure. Some terms may have clashing definitions from the
human-computer interaction field, so it is a good idea we examine them
here. In this article, we propose the following classification for
these standards based on how specialized they are to the problems and
how concrete of the solutions they are offering (Figure
\ref{fig:standards}).

\begin{figure}[!t]
\centering
\input{standards}
\caption{Taxonomy of software development standards.}
\label{fig:standards}
\end{figure}

\textit{Patterns} are split into three kinds in figure
\ref{fig:standards}. The differences between the three are in their
corresponding levels of abstraction and details. \textit{Architectural
  patterns} involves with high-level components and mechanisms of the
software. They also have wider affect on the overall software
design. \textit{Design Patterns} are more related to medium-level
subsystems within the software and have no influence on the overall
design. \textit{Idioms} are paradigm-specific programming language
techniques for low-level components \citep{patterns:buschmann}.

\textit{Principles} do not describe the solutions to the encountered
problems and are more abstract than patterns
\citep{patterns:coplien}. However, principles frequently become the
force and/or rationale of a patterns \citep{patterns:appleton}.

\textit{Guidelines} are also very visible in the software development
domain. Almost every programming language has its own programming
style guidelines, which suggest to the software developers the style
on how the source code should be organized, how variables should be
name, etc. Similarly, almost every major operating system has its own
human interface guidelines, which give recommendations to the software
developers on improving the usability of the end-users. However,
guidelines largely do not emphasize on the problem nor on the process
of developing and using the guidelines. Guidelines normally just give
``imperative'' directions to the software developers and only apply to
a specific product or system \citep{patterns:griffiths}.

\textit{Frameworks} are also closely related to patterns. Frameworks
typically encompass several patterns, or implementations of a system
of patterns. However, frameworks are more concrete than patterns in
the sense that they can be embodied in code and can be reused
directly. They are executable software, whereas patterns are knowledge
and experience about software. Also frameworks always have a specific
application domain, while patterns are applicable to nearly any kind
of application \citep{patterns:gamma}.

\textit{Algorithms / data structures} generally solve more
fine-grained computational problems or deal with resource
optimizations. Patterns on the other hand deal with software
architectural issues \citep{patterns:appleton}.

\textit{Examples} are perhaps the most effective and direct among all
the above. Almost all software developers learn new programming
languages or new techniques through examples. One classic example is
the ``Hello World'' program \citep{c:kernighan}, which demonstrates a
simple way of displaying the text ``Hello World'' with a specific
programming language. However examples are also the most restrictive,
providing very precised solutions to specific settings, and the most
concrete, providing mainly source code, of all standards.


\section{Patterns of User Experience}
\label{sec:pux}
Patterns of user experience, using the language similar to that of
software patterns, describe a set of standards on implementing user
interfaces. By utilizing these patterns, senses of
\textit{familiarity} are presented to both side of the interface
design, the end-users and the software developers. The familiarity on
one side will benefit the end-users by providing a better user
experience with the user interface. The familiarity on the other side
will benefit the software developers by assisting them to implement
better user experience to the software.

End-users will have a sense of familiarity when patterns of user
experience are applied to the software they use. As long as parts of
the software are familiar or recognizable enough to the end-users, and
the relationship among the parts are clear, they can apply their
previous knowledge when using the software
\citep[p.~xiii]{patterns:tidwell}. A similar point is also expressed
in \citet[p.~150]{humane:raskin}: {\it ``When users say that an
  interface is intuitive, they mean that it operates just like some
  other software or method with which they are familiar.''} Since
patterns of user experience are collections of many familiar parts
found in user interfaces, categorized and documented into a reusable
common structure for many different contexts, they provide exactly the
sense of familiarity that the end-users can benefit from.

Software developers, on the other hand, will also have a sense of
familiarity when implementing patterns of user experience to their
software. Working with (software) patterns is a common and crucial
trait among the software developers, as descried in section
\ref{sec:patterns}. Since patterns of user experience are transcribed
in literature similar to that of software patterns, previous practices
of and knowledge gained by implementing software patterns can also
significantly assist software developers on implementing the patterns
of user experience.

The reason why we emphasize on software developers, as mentioned in
section \ref{sec:introduction}, instead of on designers in the common
human-computer interaction publications, is that software developers
are more often than not the actual ``designer'' in charge of designing
the user experience for end-users. Hence rather than forming a
consensus on definition or evaluation on user experience, we believe
that more pragmatic measures should be given to the software
developers in order to effectively improve the user experience of the
end-users. And that patterns of user experience could be one of them.

\subsection{For End-users}
Interestingly, the traditional software patterns can also be
considered as patterns of user experience \citep{pux:blackwell}. But
they are referring to user experience for the \textit{software
  developers}, i.e.\ software developers will have better experience
with the source code if they choose to implement the appropriate
software patterns into their design. For example, following a well
known software pattern can increase the maintainability of the source
code among the collaborating software developers.

But this intention for software patterns differs from the original
intention traced back since architecture and urban planning
\citep{timeless:alexander}. The original intention was to improve
comfort and quality of life for the people living inside. But due to
an early, albeit still existing, common misconception among software
developers, the intention of patterns turned in the wrong direction
when introduced to the software development domain. They often focus
too much attention on engineering the user interface and emphasizing
the technical details that, instead as supporting tools, these user
interface and technical details become the final product for the users
\citep{pux:blackwell}. That is why software patterns are more
applicable toward software developers.

However, the user experience that we refer to is the user experience
for the \textit{end-users}, the actual users who will be using the
software. Software developers are still the ones who have to implement
the patterns of user experience. But it is the user experiences with
the product of the end-users that are improved, instead of the user
experiences with the source code of the software developers.

\subsection{Examples}
Table \ref{tab:shield} gives a simple example on patterns of user
experience for error management \citep{patterns:welie}. Coherent to
the definition in section \ref{sec:patterns}, the pattern clearly
specified the problem, the context, the forces, and the
solutions. Some additional fields are also included to help people
understanding the pattern better.

For comparison, the following is a user interface guideline on how
text should be formatted: \textit{``The \textbf{system font} (Lucida
  Grande Regular 13 point) is used for text in menus, dialogs, and
  full-size controls''} \citep{hig:apple}. Contrast to patterns, it
does not provide the ins and outs on how the solution was devised. And
although it offers a direct solution, it is very specific to a
particular problem.

\begin{table}[!t]
  \caption{Pattern of user experience `The Shield'.}
  \label{tab:shield}
  \begin{center}
    \begin{tabular}{| p{0.25\columnwidth} || p{0.65\columnwidth} |}
      \hline
      Name & The Shield. \\ \hline

      Problem & The user may accidentally select a function that has
      irreversible (side) effects. \\ \hline

      Usability Principle & Error management. \\ \hline

      Context & The user needs to be protected against unintended or
      accidental actions that have irreversible (side) effects. The
      (side) effects may lead to unsafe or highly undesired
      situations. For example the unintended deletion or overwriting
      of files. Do not use for actions that are reversible. \\ \hline

      Forces & The user is striving for speed while trying to avoid
      mistakes. \\ \hline

      Solutions & Protect the user by inserting a shield. \\ \hline

      Usability Impact & Increased safety, less errors and higher
      satisfaction. However, it requires extra user action which leads
      to lower performance time. \\ \hline

      Rationale & The extra layer causes the user to require 2
      repetitive mistakes instead of 1. The safe default decreases the
      chances for a second mistake. \\ \hline

      Known uses & Microsoft Explorer, Apple Finder. \\ \hline
    \end{tabular}
  \end{center}
\end{table}


\section{Planned Studies}
\label{sec:studies}
Through the studies, we wish to gather patterns of user experience,
which aids the software developers in implementing software to achieve
balance of transparency and reflection. For the studies, we plan to
conduct them via a new drawing application for children and the
associated human interface device.

\subsection{Application}
The aim of the application is to allow small children to scribble
intuitively on any surface and be creative wherever they are. It could
be at the dining table of a restaurant, on the wall of a bedroom, or
anyplace where the children are bored and need something to
do. However, the caveat is that these drawing activities cannot cause
any mess or damage to the places.

\subsection{Device}
In this scribbling application, hands and fingers will be the primary
painting utensils. The interaction with the application will hence in
same way be similar to interacting with a larger version of the
multi-touch touchpad. But instead of static and fixed sized like the
touchpad, the scribbling application will require a new device that
operates on any surface, as if there is always a touchpad following
underneath the users' hand.

A very early prototype of such a device has already been built. It
requires the users to put on a specially made glove that emits
infrared from the tips of the fingers. A camera capable of capturing
infrared is used to capture the positions of the fingers. These
positions are processed and transformed into gestures. By dynamically
adjusting the position and direction of the camera, the device is
capable of providing the multi-touch touchpad experience on any
surface. Some preliminary evaluations and studies on the prototype has
also been conducted. Based on the results and suggestions, we have
began to design the next prototype.

\subsection{Studies}
The studies will be similar to the ones we conducted with the early
prototype, by adjusting various configurations of the application and
performing both qualitative and quantitative studies on the pre-post
questionnaires. However, more emphasis will be put on the quantitative
results. This is where most of the useful feedback, from our studies
with the early prototype, are from.

As mentioned at the beginning of this section, we wish to collect the
results and transcribe the best practices into patterns of user
experience. A possible example of this, which occurred in our study
from the early prototype, is that even though the early prototype
provides a dynamic and relatively much large region to interact with
than the normal touchpad, a few users still requested some form of
indication to inform them the boundary, much like the physical
boundary with the normal touchpad. This may be suggesting that under
certain situations, users may prefer having visible boundary
(reflection). And in other situations, they would prefer not having
visible boundary (transparent).


\section{Conclusion}
\label{sec:conclusion}
Software developers tend to be given more than appropriate
responsibilities and roles on improving the user experience of the
end-users. Since this situation is very unlikely to change in the near
future, we argued that more attentions should be focused on the
software developers and pragmatic measures should be devised to aid
them from the human-computer interaction field. In this article, we
argued that patterns of user experience, which are collections of the
best practices in user experience transcribed in a language familiar
to software developers, is a suitable measure for the cause. We also
proposed studies on gathering patterns of user experience for bringing
balance in transparency and reflection to the user interface.

For future works, we will build the application and conduct the
proposed studies. Hopefully some patterns of user experience will be
abstractified from the results gathered. Then another studies will be
conducted to evaluate the accuracy and effectiveness of these
patterns.


\bibliographystyle{apalike}
\bibliography{final}


\end{document}
